# butterfly_classification

In this thesis the classification of butterfly wings have been studied by using image processing and computer vision techniques. The idea of this project comes out of the need of a professor from the Department of Biology at the University of Valencia whose studies are focused on the branch of the entomology and the butterflies. A set of butterflies have been photographed in a laboratory and afterwards the background has been extracted and the wing segmented from the digital images by using image processing techniques. Once the wing has been isolated, feature extraction techniques have been applied. These features have been categorised as texture, colour, shape, wing contour and wing slope. For the texture features the following methods have been applied: Gabor, Grey-Level Co- ocurrence Matrix (from now on, GLCM), Markov, granulometry and Standard Size Distribution (from now on, SSD). For the wing contour the Fourier transform has been used and for the rest of the features, mathematical relations have been calculated. Once the descriptors have been obtained, an unsupervised K-means classificator has been used to classify the images in clusters according to the features of the wings. 26 samples of butterflies have been used from 5 different species. As for the experimentation, a total of 6 experiments have been done using all the samples, 3 of them using all the descriptors calculated and the other 3 using an optimized selection of the texture descriptors as there were a large number of them. As for the number of clusters, the images have been divided into 3, 4 and 5 clusters along the different experiments. After having analysed the experiments, the hit average has been of 83,34%. As for the experiments using all the descriptors, the hit average has been of 87,18% and for the tests using a selection of texture descriptors the average has been of 79,49%. Finally conclusions have been drawn from the project and it has been commented on developing in the future a graphic interface for the application where it is possible to choose what features to use in the experiments apart from extracting new features from the wings.
